This week saw the annual check-in with Linux creator Linus Torvalds at the Open Source Summit North America, this year
held in Seattle (as well as virtually).

Torvalds took the stage Tuesday in the ballroom at the Hyatt Regency Seattle for the event’s traditional half-hour of
questions from Dirk Hohndel, an early Linux contributor (now also the chief open source officer and vice president at
VMware) in an afternoon keynote session.

The ceremony opened by acknowledging a special moment in time with a birthday cake ceremoniously delivered to Torvalds
to mark Linux’s 30th anniversary, drawing a round of applause from the audience. Hohndel added he was offering
30th-birthday wishes “to all of the kernel developers — it really is a community also.”

The theme of community seemed to keep coming up — notably about what that community has ultimately taught Linus
Torvalds.

It started with Torvalds’ memories of the first precious hours of the operating system’s release. While he’d intended to
call his newly-minted operating system Freax, “I had already been told that the FTP site that I put it on, that I did
not maintain, had a directory called Linux. So I had actually changed the name in the kernel main make file to be Linux
at that point.”
He added, “I am eternally grateful for two other people for having more taste than I did.”

But then Torvalds remembered he’d expected to move on to the next new and interesting project, leaving Linux behind in a
state where “it’s kind of done. It’s not quite usable. But it’s done enough that it’s not interesting anymore.
“That was clearly then what open source changed. Because suddenly this project — that I probably would’ve left behind,
if it was only up to me — I started getting questions about, and eventually patches — that just kept the motivation
going. And here we are 30 years later, and it’s still what keeps the motivation going.

“Because as far as I’m concerned, it’s been done for 29 of those 30 years, and every single feature ever since has been
about things that other people needed or wanted or were interested in.”